xl2roefact/doc/810.05a-xl2roefact_DLD_specs.md, before:

<a id="app_cli"></a>

# app\_cli

app_cli: the command line application for all xl2roefact functionalities.

Identification:

* copyright: (c) 2023 RENWare Software Systems
* author: Petre Iordanescu (petre.iordanescu@gmail.com)

<a id="app_cli.about"></a>

#### about

```python
@app_cli.command()
def about()
```

provide a short application description.

<a id="app_cli.settings"></a>

#### settings

```python
@app_cli.command()
def settings(rules: Annotated[
    bool,
    typer.
    Option("--rules", "-r", help="show settings recommended update rules"),
] = False)
```

display application configuration parameters and settings that are subject to be changed by user.

**Arguments**:

- ``rules`` - show recommended rules to follow when change application configurable settings (available in both RO & EN languages). Defaults to `False`.

<a id="app_cli.xl2json"></a>

#### xl2json

```python
@app_cli.command()
def xl2json(
    file_name: Annotated[
        str, typer.Argument(
            help="files to process (wildcards allowed)")] = "*.xlsx",
    files_directory: Annotated[
        Path,
        typer.Option(
            "--files-directory",
            "-d",
            exists=False,
            file_okay=False,
            dir_okay=True,
            writable=True,
            readable=True,
            resolve_path=True,
            help=
            "directory to be used to look for Excel files (if default directory does not exists will consider current directory instead)."
        ),
    ] = "invoice_files/",
    verbose: Annotated[
        bool,
        typer.
        Option("--verbose", "-v", help="show detailed processing messages"),
    ] = False)
```

extract data from an Excel file (save data to JSON format file with the same name as original file but `.json` extension).

**Arguments**:

- ``file_name`` - files to process (wildcards allowed).
- ``files_directory`` - directory to be used to look for Excel files. Defaults to `invoice_files/`. NOTE: if default directory does not exists will consider current directory instead
- ``verbose`` - show detailed processing messages". Defaults to `False`.

<a id="app_cli.called_when_no_command"></a>

#### called\_when\_no\_command

```python
@app_cli.callback(invoke_without_command=True)
def called_when_no_command(
    ctx: typer.Context,
    version: Annotated[
        bool,
        typer.Option("--version", help="show application version"),
    ] = False)
```

function called when no command is invoked and to provide only application version (for external users to test it!).

<a id="app_cli.run"></a>

#### run

NOTE: for `run` "reason to be" as copy of `app_cli` see iss `0.1.22b 240216piu_a`

<a id="chkisld"></a>

# chkisld

chkisld: modul de verificare a starii de incarcare a unei facturi emise

Identification:

* code-name: `chkisld`
* copyright: (c) 2023 RENWare Software Systems
* author: Petre Iordanescu (petre.iordanescu@gmail.com)

Specifications:

* document cerinte initiale: `110-SRE-api_to_roefact_requirements.md` section `Componenta xl2roefact`
* INTRARI: fisier `f-XLSX` sau numarul / cheia / codul facturii
* IESIRI: valoarea echivalent `TRUE` daca factura a fost deja incarcata sau valoare echivalent `FALSE` daca factura nu a fost incarcata

<a id="chkxml"></a>

# chkxml

chkxml: modul de validare a facturii in sistemul ANAF E-Factura

Identification:

* code-name: `chkxml`
* copyright: (c) 2023 RENWare Software Systems
* author: Petre Iordanescu (petre.iordanescu@gmail.com)

Specifications:

* document cerinte initiale: `110-SRE-api_to_roefact_requirements.md` section `Componenta xl2roefact`
* INTRARI: fisier `f-XML`
* IESIRI: raport cu eventualele erori de validare

<a id="config_settings"></a>

# config\_settings

Configuration and setting parameters.

Regulile recomandate se gasessc in documentul (recommended rules are in document) [`doc/README_app_config_rules.md`](../doc/README_app_config_rules.md)

    Public objects:

        `rules_content`: contains the rules text (rendered)

* copyright: (c) 2023 RENWare Software Systems
* author: Petre Iordanescu (petre.iordanescu@gmail.com)

<a id="config_settings.DEFAULT_SUPPLIER_COUNTRY"></a>

#### DEFAULT\_SUPPLIER\_COUNTRY

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
__NOTE: "pattern-uri" (sabloane) de identificare si regasire a datelor folositi de__

__  comanda `xl2json` reprezentind functionalitatea de extragere a datelor din Excel si exportul lor in formatul JSON (modulul `rdinv)__

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a id="config_settings.python_object"></a>

#### python\_object

suppose no info found

<a id="ldxml"></a>

# ldxml

ldxml: modul de incarcare a facturii in sistemul ANAF E-Factura

Identification:

* code-name: `ldxml`
* copyright: (c) 2023 RENWare Software Systems
* author: Petre Iordanescu (petre.iordanescu@gmail.com)

Specifications:

* document cerinte initiale: `110-SRE-api_to_roefact_requirements.md` section `Componenta xl2roefact`
* INTRARI: fisier `f-XML`
* IESIRI: raport cu validarea si identificatorul incarcarii

<a id="libutils"></a>

# libutils

general utilities library for all `xl2roefact` components and modules.

Identification:

* code-name: `libutils`
* copyright: (c) 2023, 2024 RENWare Software Systems
* author: Petre Iordanescu (petre.iordanescu@gmail.com)

Components:

* `complete_sexe_file() -> bool`: Rename and move resulted exe file (called from `build_sexe` script)
* `dict_sum_by_key(dict, str) -> float`: Sum a dictionary for a given key at all depth levels
* `find_str_in_list(list, list) -> int`: Search more strings (ie, a list) in list of strings
* `invoice_taxes_summary(list[dict]) -> dict`: Calculates invoice taxes summary as required by ROefact requirements
* `isnumber(str) -> bool`: Test a string if it could be used as number (int or float)

<a id="libutils.complete_sexe_file"></a>

#### complete\_sexe\_file

```python
def complete_sexe_file(drop_source: bool = True) -> bool
```

Rename and move resulted exe file. This function is dedicated only to development phase, so various objects are hard coded.

* Specs: file to process `.../dist_sexe/xl2roefact_to_update_name.exe` --> `.../dist/xl2roefact-version-win64.exe
* NOTE: all function code suppose that current directory is root of `xl2roefact`, ie where is located `pyproject.toml` of package

**Arguments**:

- ``drop_source`` - indicate to delete source file after copying, ie make a "move" operation, otherwise make a copy keeping the source file. Default behaviour is to delete source.

**Returns**:

- ``bool`` - True if file was found, renamed and moved with no error

<a id="libutils.invoice_taxes_summary"></a>

#### invoice\_taxes\_summary

```python
def invoice_taxes_summary(invoice_lines: list[dict]) -> list
```

Calculates invoice taxes summary as required by ROefact requirements.

**Arguments**:

- ``invoice_lines`` - section with item lines from 'big' invoice dictionary
  

**Returns**:

- ``list`` - usable for "cac_TaxSubtotal" key

<a id="libutils.dict_sum_by_key"></a>

#### dict\_sum\_by\_key

```python
def dict_sum_by_key(search_dict: dict | list[dict], sum_key: str) -> float
```

Sum all dictionary (or list off dictionaries) items, at all levels, for a given key.

**Arguments**:

- ``search_dict`` - dictionary to be searched for
- ``sum_key`` - key to be searched
  

**Returns**:

- ``float`` - with required sum

<a id="libutils.isnumber"></a>

#### isnumber

```python
def isnumber(a_string: str) -> bool
```

test if a string is valid as any kind of number.

**Arguments**:

- ``a_string`` - input string.
  

**Returns**:

- ``True`` - if input string is valid as any kind of number, orherwise `False`.

<a id="libutils.find_str_in_list"></a>

#### find\_str\_in\_list

```python
def find_str_in_list(list_of_str_to_find: list, list_to_search: list) -> int
```

find a substring from `list_of_str_to_find` in elements of `list_to_search`.

**Arguments**:

- ``list_of_str_to_find`` - list of strings to search for.
- ``list_to_search`` - liste where to search for substrings.
  

**Returns**:

- ``index`` - the index of list item which contains `str_to_find` (first found) or `None` if not found.

<a id="rdinv"></a>

# rdinv

rdinv: modul de procesare a fisierului Excel ce contine factura si colectare a datelor aferente.

Formatul acceptat fisier Excel este `XLSX`.

Identification:

* code-name: `rdinv`
* copyright: (c) 2023 RENWare Software Systems
* author: Petre Iordanescu (petre.iordanescu@gmail.com)

Specifications:

* document cerinte initiale: `110-SRE-api_to_roefact_requirements.md` section `Componenta xl2roefact`
* INTRARI: fisier format XLSX ce contine factura emisa (cod: `f-XLSX`)
* IESIRI: fisier format JSON imagine a datelor facturii (cod: `f-JSON`)

<a id="rdinv.rdinv"></a>

#### rdinv

```python
def rdinv(file_to_process: str,
          invoice_worksheet_name: str = None,
          *,
          debug_info: bool = False) -> dict
```

read Excel file for invoice data.

Produce a dictionary structure + JSON file with all data regarding read invoice: canonical KV data, meta data, map to convert to XML and original Excel data.

**Arguments**:

- ``file_to_process`` - the invoice file (exact file with path).
- ``invoice_worksheet_name`` - the worksheet containing invoice, optional, defaults to first found worksheet.
- ``debug_info`` - key only, show debugging information, default `False`.
  

**Returns**:

- ``dict`` - the invoice extracted information from Excel file as `dict(Invoice: dict, meta_info: dict, excel_original_data: dict)`  `TODO` subject of documentation update.
  
  NOTE ref important variables:
  * `db: pylightxl object`: EXCEL object with invoice (as a whole)
  * `ws: pylightxl object`: WORKSHEET object with invoice

<a id="rdinv.get_excel_data_at_label"></a>

#### get\_excel\_data\_at\_label

```python
def get_excel_data_at_label(pattern_to_search_for: list[str],
                            worksheet: xl.Database.ws,
                            area_to_scan: list[list[int]] = None,
                            targeted_type: Callable = str,
                            down_search_try: bool = True) -> dict
```

get "one key Excel values", like invoice number or invoice issue date.

**Arguments**:

- ``pattern_to_search_for`` - for example for inv number, will pass the `PATTERN_FOR_INVOICE_NUMBER_LABEL`.
- ``worksheet`` - the worksheet containing invoice (as object of `pyxllight` library).
- ``area_to_scan`` - area of cells to be searched, default whole worksheet.
- ``targeted_type`` - what type expect (will try to convert to, if cannot will return str), default `str`.
- ``down_search_try`` - establish if DOWN search method is tried, default `True`.
  

**Returns**:

  `None` if not found OR `dictionary` containing:
  * `"value": int | float | str` - the value found covenrted to requested `targeted_type` if possible or `str` otherwise; if "out of space" then returns `None`
  * `"location": (row, col)` - adrees of cell where found value
  

**Notes**:

  * normal scan order is 1.RIGHT, 2.DOWN (if allowed), 3.IN-LABEL only in given area and pattern.

<a id="rdinv.mk_kv_invoice_items_area"></a>

#### mk\_kv\_invoice\_items\_area

```python
def mk_kv_invoice_items_area(invoice_items_area_xl_format) -> dict
```

transform `invoice_items_area` in "canonical JSON format" (as kv pairs).

**Arguments**:

- ``invoice_items_area_xl_format`` - invoice items area in Excel format (ie, DataFrame with row, col, data).
  

**Returns**:

- ``invoice_items_area_xl_format`` - dictionary with invoice items in Excel format (ie, rows, columns).
  

**Notes**:

  * for ROefact XML model (& plan) see `invoice_files/__model_test_factura_generat_anaf.xml`.

<a id="rdinv.get_invoice_items_area"></a>

#### get\_invoice\_items\_area

```python
def get_invoice_items_area(worksheet, invoice_items_area_marker,
                           wks_name) -> dict
```

get invoice for `invoice_items_area`, process it and return its Excel format.

Process steps & notes:
* find invoice items subtable.
* clean invoice items subtable.
* extract relevenat data.
* NOTE: all Excel cell addresses are in `(row, col)` format (ie, Not Excel format like "A:26, C:42, ...")

**Arguments**:

- ``worksheet`` - the worksheet containing invoice (as object of `pyxllight` library).
- ``invoice_items_area_marker`` - string with exact marker of invoice items table.
- `NOTE` - this is the UPPER-LEFT corner and is determined before calling this procedure.
- ``wks_name`` - the wroksheet name (string) of the `worksheet` object.
  

**Returns**:

- ``invoice_items_area`` - dictionary with invoice items in Excel format (ie, rows, columns).

<a id="wrxml"></a>

# wrxml

wrxml: modul de generare a fisierului format XML

Identification:

* code-name: `wrxml`
* copyright: (c) 2023 RENWare Software Systems
* author: Petre Iordanescu (petre.iordanescu@gmail.com)

Specifications:

* document cerinte initiale: `110-SRE-api_to_roefact_requirements.md` section `Componenta xl2roefact`
* INTRARI: fisier `f-JSON`
* IESIRI: fisier format XML conform cerintelor si sistemului ANAF E-Factura (cod: `f-XML`)

<a id="__init__"></a>

# \_\_init\_\_

<a id="__init__.__version__"></a>

#### \_\_version\_\_

default conversion takes place over xl2roefact actual version

<a id="__main__"></a>

# \_\_main\_\_

**xl2roefact.__main__**: Python package standard file to assure run as `python -m xl2roefact`.

Identification:

* code-name: `__main__`
* copyright: (c) 2023 RENWare Software Systems
* author: Petre Iordanescu (petre.iordanescu@gmail.com)

Deployments:

* Windows:  MSI installer with EXE application.
* Linux: `xl2roefact` executable shell as wrapper for `xl2roefact.py`.

Specifications:

* command general format: `python -m xl2roefact [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]... `.
* help: `python -m xl2roefact --help`.

<a id="__version__"></a>

# \_\_version\_\_

xl2roefact version info.
```
 ######## ####              ########  ######
 #  ##  # #  #              #      # ##    ##
 ##    ## #  #              ###  ### #  ##  #
  ##  ##  #  #                #  #   #  ##  #
 ##    ## #  #                #  #   #  ##  #
 #  ##  # #  #####            #  #   #  ##  #
 #  ##  # #      #            #  #   ##    ##
 ######## ########            ####    ######

                            ######## ########  ######   ######  ########
 #######   ######           #      # #     #  ##    ## ##    ## #      #
 #     ## ##    ## #######  #  ##### #  ####  #  ##  # #  ##  # ###  ###
 #  ##  # #  ##  # #     #  #    #   #    #   #      # #  #####   #  #
 #  ##### #  ##  # #######  #  ###   #  ###   #  ##  # #  #####   #  #
 #  # #   #  ##  #          #  ##### #  #     #  ##  # #  ##  #   #  #
 #  #  #  ##    ##          #      # #  #     #  ##  # ##    ##   #  #
 ####   #  ######           ######## ####     ########  ######    ####
```

<a id="__version__.normalized_version"></a>

#### normalized\_version

```python
def normalized_version(raw_version: str = __version__) -> str
```

transform version string in canonical form.

Usage:
- `import xl2roefact`
- `xl2roefact.__version__.normalized_version()`

**Arguments**:

  `raw_version (str)`: a raw version string. Defaults to package current version string.
  

**Returns**:

  `str:` canonical version string

<a id="data"></a>

# data

Commit message:

closed `240325piu-use-new-function + 2.`

xl2roefact/doc/810.05a-xl2roefact_DLD_specs.md, after:

<a id="app_cli"></a>

# app\_cli

app_cli: the command line application for all xl2roefact functionalities.

Identification:

* copyright: (c) 2023 RENWare Software Systems
* author: Petre Iordanescu (petre.iordanescu@gmail.com)

<a id="app_cli.about"></a>

#### about

```python
@app_cli.command()
def about()
```

provide a short application description.

<a id="app_cli.settings"></a>

#### settings

```python
@app_cli.command()
def settings(rules: Annotated[
    bool,
    typer.
    Option("--rules", "-r", help="show settings recommended update rules"),
] = False)
```

display application configuration parameters and settings that are subject to be changed by user.

**Arguments**:

- ``rules`` - show recommended rules to follow when change application configurable settings (available in both RO & EN languages). Defaults to `False`.

<a id="app_cli.xl2json"></a>

#### xl2json

```python
@app_cli.command()
def xl2json(
    file_name: Annotated[
        str, typer.Argument(
            help="files to process (wildcards allowed)")] = "*.xlsx",
    files_directory: Annotated[
        Path,
        typer.Option(
            "--files-directory",
            "-d",
            exists=False,
            file_okay=False,
            dir_okay=True,
            writable=True,
            readable=True,
            resolve_path=True,
            help=
            "directory to be used to look for Excel files (if default directory does not exists will consider current directory instead)."
        ),
    ] = "invoice_files/",
    verbose: Annotated[
        bool,
        typer.
        Option("--verbose", "-v", help="show detailed processing messages"),
    ] = False)
```

extract data from an Excel file (save data to JSON format file with the same name as original file but `.json` extension).

**Arguments**:

- ``file_name`` - files to process (wildcards allowed).
- ``files_directory`` - directory to be used to look for Excel files. Defaults to `invoice_files/`. NOTE: if default directory does not exists will consider current directory instead
- ``verbose`` - show detailed processing messages". Defaults to `False`.

<a id="app_cli.called_when_no_command"></a>

#### called\_when\_no\_command

```python
@app_cli.callback(invoke_without_command=True)
def called_when_no_command(
    ctx: typer.Context,
    version: Annotated[
        bool,
        typer.Option("--version", help="show application version"),
    ] = False)
```

function called when no command is invoked and to provide only application version (for external users to test it!).

<a id="app_cli.run"></a>

#### run

NOTE: for `run` "reason to be" as copy of `app_cli` see iss `0.1.22b 240216piu_a`

<a id="chkisld"></a>

# chkisld

chkisld: modul de verificare a starii de incarcare a unei facturi emise

Identification:

* code-name: `chkisld`
* copyright: (c) 2023 RENWare Software Systems
* author: Petre Iordanescu (petre.iordanescu@gmail.com)

Specifications:

* document cerinte initiale: `110-SRE-api_to_roefact_requirements.md` section `Componenta xl2roefact`
* INTRARI: fisier `f-XLSX` sau numarul / cheia / codul facturii
* IESIRI: valoarea echivalent `TRUE` daca factura a fost deja incarcata sau valoare echivalent `FALSE` daca factura nu a fost incarcata

<a id="chkxml"></a>

# chkxml

chkxml: modul de validare a facturii in sistemul ANAF E-Factura

Identification:

* code-name: `chkxml`
* copyright: (c) 2023 RENWare Software Systems
* author: Petre Iordanescu (petre.iordanescu@gmail.com)

Specifications:

* document cerinte initiale: `110-SRE-api_to_roefact_requirements.md` section `Componenta xl2roefact`
* INTRARI: fisier `f-XML`
* IESIRI: raport cu eventualele erori de validare

<a id="config_settings"></a>

# config\_settings

Configuration and setting parameters.

Regulile recomandate se gasessc in documentul (recommended rules are in document) [`doc/README_app_config_rules.md`](../doc/README_app_config_rules.md)

    Public objects:

        `rules_content`: contains the rules text (rendered)

* copyright: (c) 2023 RENWare Software Systems
* author: Petre Iordanescu (petre.iordanescu@gmail.com)

<a id="config_settings.DEFAULT_SUPPLIER_COUNTRY"></a>

#### DEFAULT\_SUPPLIER\_COUNTRY

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
__NOTE: "pattern-uri" (sabloane) de identificare si regasire a datelor folositi de__

__  comanda `xl2json` reprezentind functionalitatea de extragere a datelor din Excel si exportul lor in formatul JSON (modulul `rdinv)__

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a id="config_settings.python_object"></a>

#### python\_object

suppose no info found

<a id="ldxml"></a>

# ldxml

ldxml: modul de incarcare a facturii in sistemul ANAF E-Factura

Identification:

* code-name: `ldxml`
* copyright: (c) 2023 RENWare Software Systems
* author: Petre Iordanescu (petre.iordanescu@gmail.com)

Specifications:

* document cerinte initiale: `110-SRE-api_to_roefact_requirements.md` section `Componenta xl2roefact`
* INTRARI: fisier `f-XML`
* IESIRI: raport cu validarea si identificatorul incarcarii

<a id="libutils"></a>

# libutils

general utilities library for all `xl2roefact` components and modules.

Identification:

* code-name: `libutils`
* copyright: (c) 2023, 2024 RENWare Software Systems
* author: Petre Iordanescu (petre.iordanescu@gmail.com)

Components:

* `complete_sexe_file() -> bool`: Rename and move resulted exe file (called from `build_sexe` script)
* `dict_sum_by_key(dict, str) -> float`: Sum a dictionary for a given key at all depth levels
* `find_str_in_list(list, list) -> int`: Search more strings (ie, a list) in list of strings
* `invoice_taxes_summary(list[dict]) -> dict`: Calculates invoice taxes summary as required by ROefact requirements
* `isnumber(str) -> bool`: Test a string if it could be used as number (int or float)

<a id="libutils.complete_sexe_file"></a>

#### complete\_sexe\_file

```python
def complete_sexe_file(drop_source: bool = True) -> bool
```

Rename and move resulted exe file. This function is dedicated only to development phase, so various objects are hard coded.

* Specs: file to process `.../dist_sexe/xl2roefact_to_update_name.exe` --> `.../dist/xl2roefact-version-win64.exe
* NOTE: all function code suppose that current directory is root of `xl2roefact`, ie where is located `pyproject.toml` of package

**Arguments**:

- ``drop_source`` - indicate to delete source file after copying, ie make a "move" operation, otherwise make a copy keeping the source file. Default behaviour is to delete source.

**Returns**:

- ``bool`` - True if file was found, renamed and moved with no error

<a id="libutils.invoice_taxes_summary"></a>

#### invoice\_taxes\_summary

```python
def invoice_taxes_summary(invoice_lines: list[dict]) -> list
```

Calculates invoice taxes summary as required by ROefact requirements.

**Arguments**:

- ``invoice_lines`` - section with item lines from 'big' invoice dictionary
  

**Returns**:

- ``list`` - usable for "cac_TaxSubtotal" key

<a id="libutils.dict_sum_by_key"></a>

#### dict\_sum\_by\_key

```python
def dict_sum_by_key(search_dict: dict | list[dict], sum_key: str) -> float
```

Sum all dictionary (or list off dictionaries) items, at all levels, for a given key.

**Arguments**:

- ``search_dict`` - dictionary to be searched for
- ``sum_key`` - key to be searched
  

**Returns**:

- ``float`` - with required sum

<a id="libutils.isnumber"></a>

#### isnumber

```python
def isnumber(a_string: str) -> bool
```

test if a string is valid as any kind of number.

**Arguments**:

- ``a_string`` - input string.
  

**Returns**:

- ``True`` - if input string is valid as any kind of number, orherwise `False`.

<a id="libutils.find_str_in_list"></a>

#### find\_str\_in\_list

```python
def find_str_in_list(list_of_str_to_find: list, list_to_search: list) -> int
```

find a substring from `list_of_str_to_find` in elements of `list_to_search`.

**Arguments**:

- ``list_of_str_to_find`` - list of strings to search for.
- ``list_to_search`` - liste where to search for substrings.
  

**Returns**:

- ``index`` - the index of list item which contains `str_to_find` (first found) or `None` if not found.

<a id="rdinv"></a>

# rdinv

rdinv: modul de procesare a fisierului Excel ce contine factura si colectare a datelor aferente.

Formatul acceptat fisier Excel este `XLSX`.

Identification:

* code-name: `rdinv`
* copyright: (c) 2023 RENWare Software Systems
* author: Petre Iordanescu (petre.iordanescu@gmail.com)

Specifications:

* document cerinte initiale: `110-SRE-api_to_roefact_requirements.md` section `Componenta xl2roefact`
* INTRARI: fisier format XLSX ce contine factura emisa (cod: `f-XLSX`)
* IESIRI: fisier format JSON imagine a datelor facturii (cod: `f-JSON`)

<a id="rdinv.rdinv"></a>

#### rdinv

```python
def rdinv(file_to_process: str,
          invoice_worksheet_name: str = None,
          *,
          debug_info: bool = False) -> dict
```

read Excel file for invoice data.

Produce a dictionary structure + JSON file with all data regarding read invoice: canonical KV data, meta data, map to convert to XML and original Excel data.

**Arguments**:

- ``file_to_process`` - the invoice file (exact file with path).
- ``invoice_worksheet_name`` - the worksheet containing invoice, optional, defaults to first found worksheet.
- ``debug_info`` - key only, show debugging information, default `False`.
  

**Returns**:

- ``dict`` - the invoice extracted information from Excel file as `dict(Invoice: dict, meta_info: dict, excel_original_data: dict)`  `TODO` subject of documentation update.
  
  NOTE ref important variables:
  * `db: pylightxl object`: EXCEL object with invoice (as a whole)
  * `ws: pylightxl object`: WORKSHEET object with invoice

<a id="rdinv.get_excel_data_at_label"></a>

#### get\_excel\_data\_at\_label

```python
def get_excel_data_at_label(pattern_to_search_for: list[str],
                            worksheet: xl.Database.ws,
                            area_to_scan: list[list[int]] = None,
                            targeted_type: Callable = str,
                            down_search_try: bool = True) -> dict
```

get "one key Excel values", like invoice number or invoice issue date.

**Arguments**:

- ``pattern_to_search_for`` - for example for inv number, will pass the `PATTERN_FOR_INVOICE_NUMBER_LABEL`.
- ``worksheet`` - the worksheet containing invoice (as object of `pyxllight` library).
- ``area_to_scan`` - area of cells to be searched, default whole worksheet.
- ``targeted_type`` - what type expect (will try to convert to, if cannot will return str), default `str`.
- ``down_search_try`` - establish if DOWN search method is tried, default `True`.
  

**Returns**:

  `None` if not found OR `dictionary` containing:
  * `"value": int | float | str` - the value found covenrted to requested `targeted_type` if possible or `str` otherwise; if "out of space" then returns `None`
  * `"location": (row, col)` - adrees of cell where found value
  

**Notes**:

  * normal scan order is 1.RIGHT, 2.DOWN (if allowed), 3.IN-LABEL only in given area and pattern.

<a id="rdinv.mk_kv_invoice_items_area"></a>

#### mk\_kv\_invoice\_items\_area

```python
def mk_kv_invoice_items_area(invoice_items_area_xl_format) -> dict
```

transform `invoice_items_area` in "canonical JSON format" (as kv pairs).

**Arguments**:

- ``invoice_items_area_xl_format`` - invoice items area in Excel format (ie, DataFrame with row, col, data).
  

**Returns**:

- ``invoice_items_area_xl_format`` - dictionary with invoice items in Excel format (ie, rows, columns).
  

**Notes**:

  * for ROefact XML model (& plan) see `invoice_files/__model_test_factura_generat_anaf.xml`.

<a id="rdinv.get_invoice_items_area"></a>

#### get\_invoice\_items\_area

```python
def get_invoice_items_area(worksheet, invoice_items_area_marker,
                           wks_name) -> dict
```

get invoice for `invoice_items_area`, process it and return its Excel format.

Process steps & notes:
* find invoice items subtable.
* clean invoice items subtable.
* extract relevenat data.
* NOTE: all Excel cell addresses are in `(row, col)` format (ie, Not Excel format like "A:26, C:42, ...")

**Arguments**:

- ``worksheet`` - the worksheet containing invoice (as object of `pyxllight` library).
- ``invoice_items_area_marker`` - string with exact marker of invoice items table.
- `NOTE` - this is the UPPER-LEFT corner and is determined before calling this procedure.
- ``wks_name`` - the wroksheet name (string) of the `worksheet` object.
  

**Returns**:

- ``invoice_items_area`` - dictionary with invoice items in Excel format (ie, rows, columns).

<a id="rdinv.get_partner_data"></a>

#### get\_partner\_data

```python
def get_partner_data(partner_type: str, *, wks,
                     param_invoice_header_area: dict) -> None
```

Get invoice partener data from Excel.

For developers note: function works by generating side effects and must be located in `rdinv.py`

**Arguments**:

- ``partner_type`` - one of "CUSTOMER", "SUPPLIER" or "OWNER" to specify for what kind of parner get data. The value "OWNER" is designed to get data from an outside database / file (master data)
- ``wks`` - current work-on `pylightxl Worksheet` object
- ``param_invoice_header_area`` - outside `param_invoice_header_area` as used and needed in `rdinv()`. This function will write back in this variable
  

**Returns**:

- ``None`` - all data is produced directly in parameters as side effect

<a id="wrxml"></a>

# wrxml

wrxml: modul de generare a fisierului format XML

Identification:

* code-name: `wrxml`
* copyright: (c) 2023 RENWare Software Systems
* author: Petre Iordanescu (petre.iordanescu@gmail.com)

Specifications:

* document cerinte initiale: `110-SRE-api_to_roefact_requirements.md` section `Componenta xl2roefact`
* INTRARI: fisier `f-JSON`
* IESIRI: fisier format XML conform cerintelor si sistemului ANAF E-Factura (cod: `f-XML`)

<a id="__init__"></a>

# \_\_init\_\_

<a id="__init__.__version__"></a>

#### \_\_version\_\_

default conversion takes place over xl2roefact actual version

<a id="__main__"></a>

# \_\_main\_\_

**xl2roefact.__main__**: Python package standard file to assure run as `python -m xl2roefact`.

Identification:

* code-name: `__main__`
* copyright: (c) 2023 RENWare Software Systems
* author: Petre Iordanescu (petre.iordanescu@gmail.com)

Deployments:

* Windows:  MSI installer with EXE application.
* Linux: `xl2roefact` executable shell as wrapper for `xl2roefact.py`.

Specifications:

* command general format: `python -m xl2roefact [OPTIONS] COMMAND [ARGS]... `.
* help: `python -m xl2roefact --help`.

<a id="__version__"></a>

# \_\_version\_\_

xl2roefact version info.
```
 ######## ####              ########  ######
 #  ##  # #  #              #      # ##    ##
 ##    ## #  #              ###  ### #  ##  #
  ##  ##  #  #                #  #   #  ##  #
 ##    ## #  #                #  #   #  ##  #
 #  ##  # #  #####            #  #   #  ##  #
 #  ##  # #      #            #  #   ##    ##
 ######## ########            ####    ######

                            ######## ########  ######   ######  ########
 #######   ######           #      # #     #  ##    ## ##    ## #      #
 #     ## ##    ## #######  #  ##### #  ####  #  ##  # #  ##  # ###  ###
 #  ##  # #  ##  # #     #  #    #   #    #   #      # #  #####   #  #
 #  ##### #  ##  # #######  #  ###   #  ###   #  ##  # #  #####   #  #
 #  # #   #  ##  #          #  ##### #  #     #  ##  # #  ##  #   #  #
 #  #  #  ##    ##          #      # #  #     #  ##  # ##    ##   #  #
 ####   #  ######           ######## ####     ########  ######    ####
```

<a id="__version__.normalized_version"></a>

#### normalized\_version

```python
def normalized_version(raw_version: str = __version__) -> str
```

transform version string in canonical form.

Usage:
- `import xl2roefact`
- `xl2roefact.__version__.normalized_version()`

**Arguments**:

  `raw_version (str)`: a raw version string. Defaults to package current version string.
  

**Returns**:

  `str:` canonical version string

<a id="data"></a>

# data
